---
layout: post
title: "Polina on Rails: Week Two"
date: 2014-02-07 13:26:15 -0500
comments: true
categories: 
---

###Topic: make an app with Devise 

Talk about making these two apps:

[1] Devise for authentication with ActiveRecord and SQLite for a database
	
Devise: ready made authentication and user management
RSpec: popular framework for unit testing
Cucumber: use for integration testing and BDD

This combination is the foundation of lots of real-world Rails applications. Devise will let you sign up a new user and create an account. It will also require a visitor to log in before allowing access to an application. RSpec lets you test your code. Integration tests built with Cucumber let you figure out if the app's specs work as expected. Cucumber tests the app from the point of view of the user. 

How to create a specific gemset:
$ rvm use ruby-2.0.0@rails3-devise-rspec-cucumber --create
$ gem install rails

This is very helpful:
$ echo "ruby-2.0.0" > .ruby-version
$ echo "rails3-devise-rspec-cucumber" > .ruby-gemset

Devise provides *authentication*. This makes sure that the app securely identifies users and makes sure the user is really who they are. Devise also provides user management and implements features to let the user sign up to create/edit an account.

Devise does not provide *authorization*. Authorization determines if an authenticated user should have access to the secured resources. Once you've authenticated a user, you can use CanCan to limit access to users to certain types of content on your site.

CanCan is the most popular gem for authorization. I'm not using it in this application.

Next on the list--> Build a pretty app with Twitter Bootstrap!

Related apps I've made:
* An app that uses Devise for authentication with a MongoDB datastore
* OmniAuth for authentication with a MongoDB datastore
* Basecamp-style subdomains with Devise and MongoDB




